README.md, before:

# ![sila-orchestrator logo](doc/pictures/sila-orchestrator-logo-128px.png) sila-orchestrator


A simple, dynamic [SiLA 2](https://sila-standard.com/) compliant client for coordinating various 
services. The main goal of this client is to easily link different SiLA 2 commands together, to 
create a automated, continuous workflow between distinct devices.

![The sila-orchestrator client](doc/pictures/sila-orchestrator-gui.png)


### Build the Project

First, clone the repository.
```bash
git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/FlorianBauer/sila-orchestrator.git
```

To build this project, JDK 11 or higher and a moderately current Maven installation is required.
Enter the project directory and use the following command to start the build process:

```bash
cd path/to/sila-orchestrator/
mvn clean install -DskipTests
```

After that, the resulting `*.jar`-file is located in the `orchestrator-client/target`-directory as 
`orchestrator-client-exec.jar`.


### Usage

Starting the sila-orchestrator GUI client: `java -jar orchestrator-client-exec.jar`.

Using the client within the command line:
```
Usage: java -jar orchestrator-client-exec.jar [args]
 -h, --help
	 Print this help message.
 -v, --version
	 Print the version number.
 --about, --info
	 Print some general information about this software.
 -x <silo file>, --execute <silo file>
	 Loads and executes the provided silo file.
```

Commit message:

Added reference to the user guide in the README.

README.md, after:

# ![sila-orchestrator logo](doc/pictures/sila-orchestrator-logo-128px.png) sila-orchestrator


A simple, dynamic [SiLA 2](https://sila-standard.com/) compliant client for coordinating various 
services. The main goal of this client is to easily link different SiLA 2 commands together, to 
create a automated, continuous workflow between distinct devices. For a short function overview and 
a description on how to use this software, take a look into the [user guide](doc/UserGuide.md).

![The sila-orchestrator client](doc/pictures/sila-orchestrator-gui.png)


### Build the Project

First, clone the repository.
```bash
git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/FlorianBauer/sila-orchestrator.git
```

To build this project, JDK 11 or higher and a moderately current Maven installation is required.
Enter the project directory and use the following command to start the build process:

```bash
cd path/to/sila-orchestrator/
mvn clean install -DskipTests
```

After that, the resulting `*.jar`-file is located in the `orchestrator-client/target`-directory as 
`orchestrator-client-exec.jar`.


### Usage

Starting the sila-orchestrator GUI client: `java -jar orchestrator-client-exec.jar`.

Using the client within the command line:
```
Usage: java -jar orchestrator-client-exec.jar [args]
 -h, --help
	 Print this help message.
 -v, --version
	 Print the version number.
 --about, --info
	 Print some general information about this software.
 -x <silo file>, --execute <silo file>
	 Loads and executes the provided silo file.
```
